Update relayer guide (#300)
lukso-network/docs: docs/guides/key-manager/execute-relay-call.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Execute Relay Call'
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Execute Relay Call

> The [LSP6 KeyManager standard](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md) enables anybody to execute a transation on behalf of a Universal Profile, given they have a valid transaction which has been signed by a key which controls the Universal Profile.

Reviewer: Is there already a set convention for LSP terms @CJ42 ? Otherwise I would suggest to either write `LSP6 KeyManager Standard` , or keep the word `standard` lowercase but out of the link.

> The [LSP6 KeyManager standard](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md) enables anybody to execute a transation on behalf of a Universal Profile, given they have a valid transaction which has been signed by a key which controls the Universal Profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [LSP6 KeyManager standard](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md) enables anybody to execute a transaction on behalf of a Universal Profile, given they have a valid transaction signed by a key that controls the Universal Profile.
```

> The [LSP6 KeyManager standard](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md) enables anybody to execute a transation on behalf of a Universal Profile, given they have a valid transaction which has been signed by a key which controls the Universal Profile.

Reviewer 2: _Suggested changes._

I think also maybe would be good to link to the **permissions** section on the LSP6 Standard page for the word "permissions" at the end (I cannot find the correct link).

```suggestion
The [LSP6 KeyManager standard](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md) enables any `address` (EOA or contract) to execute a transaction on behalf of a Universal Profile, given they have a valid signature for a transaction and have the right permissions on the Universal Profile.
```

> This enables use cases such as Transaction Relayer Services to be possible where users can send their transaction details to a third party to be executed, moving the gas cost burden away from the user who owns the Universal Profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relayed execution enables use cases such as Transaction Relayer Services to be possible where users can send their transaction details to a third party to be executed, moving the gas cost burden away from the user who owns the Universal Profile.
```

> This enables use cases such as Transaction Relayer Services to be possible where users can send their transaction details to a third party to be executed, moving the gas cost burden away from the user who owns the Universal Profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enables use cases such as Transaction Relay Services to be possible where users can send their transaction details to a third party to be executed, moving the gas cost burden away from the user who owns the Universal Profile.
```

> For example, Alice who owns a Universal Profile can send an encoded transaction which updates her [LSP3Profile](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp3-universal-profile-metadata.md) picture to a second user Bob, who executes the transaction and pays the gas cost of the transaction on behalf of Alice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Alice, who owns a Universal Profile, can send an encoded transaction that updates her [LSP3Profile](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp3-universal-profile-metadata.md) picture to a second user Bob, who executes the transaction and pays the gas cost of the transaction on behalf of Alice.
```

> For this, Bob needs to know the encoded transaction ABI to be executed, the signature and the nonce of the key which signed the transaction.

Reviewer: IMO, its a bit too wordy and hard to grasp

```suggestion
To execute such a transaction, Bob needs to know: 
- the encoded ABI of the transaction that will get executed, 
- the transactions signature, and
- the nonce of the key which signed the transaction.
```

> The transaction is then executed via the [LSP6KeyManager](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md) function `executeRelayCall`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could add a link to `executeRelayCall(...)` to the contract API docs?

## Generate the Signed Transaction Payload

:::info

> This example shows how to prepare a transaction to be executed by a third party. This logic can be implemented client side and then sent to a third party application or service such as a Transaction Relay service to be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to prepare a transaction to be executed by a third party. This logic can be implemented client-side and then sent to a third-party application or service such as a Transaction Relay service to be executed.
```

:::

> To encode a transaction we need the address of the Universal Profile smart contract and the private key of a controller key which has sufficient [LSP6 permissions](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md#permissions) to execute the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To encode a transaction, we need the address of the Universal Profile smart contract and the private key of a controller key with sufficient [LSP6 permissions](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md#permissions) to execute the transaction.
```

```typescript
const controllingAccountPrivateKey = '0x...';
const myUpAddress = '0x...';
```

> Get the `nonce` of the controller key from the KeyManager by instantiating the KeyManager Contract instance and calling `getNonce`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get the `nonce` of the controller key from the KeyManager by instantiating the KeyManager smart contract instance and calling its `getNonce` function.
```

> The `channelId` is used to prevent nonce conflicts when multiple apps send transactions to the same KeyManager at the same time. Read more about [out of order execution here](../../standards/universal-profile/lsp6-key-manager.md#out-of-order-execution).

Reviewer 2: These two sentences describe really well.

The example of multi-channel nonce in particular is awesome! (never thought about this use case @YamenMerhi ).

🚀 🎩

```typescript title="Get the controller key nonce"
import UniversalProfileContract from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/artifacts/UniversalProfile.json';
import KeyManagerContract from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/artifacts/LSP6KeyManager.json';

const myUniversalProfile = new web3.eth.Contract(
  UniversalProfileContract.abi,
  myUpAddress,
);

const keyManagerAddress = await myUniversalProfile.methods.owner().call();
const KeyManager = new web3.eth.Contract(
  KeyManagerContract.abi,
  keyManagerAddress,
);

> const controllerAccount =

Reviewer 2: can this be in just one line?

  web3.eth.accounts.privateKeyToAccount(controllerPrivateKey);
const channelId = 0;

const nonce = await KeyManager.methods
  .getNonce(controllerAccount.address, channelId)
  .call();
```

> Encode the ABI of the transaction you want to be executed. In this case a LYX transfer to a recipient address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encode the ABI of the transaction you want to be executed. In this case, an LYX transfer to a recipient address.
```

We use vocal terms in `an NFT` as well, so I would also use them for the term `LYX`

```typescript title="Encode transaction ABI"
const abiPayload = myUniversalProfile.methods.execute(
    0,
    '0x...', // Recipient address
    web3.utils.toWei('1'),
    '0x'
).encodeABI()) ;
```

> Afterward, sign the transaction message from the controller key of the Universal Profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Afterwards, sign the transaction message from the controller key of the Universal Profile.
```

The message is constructed by signing the `chainId`, `keyManagerAddress`, signer `nonce` and `abiPayload`.

```typescript title="Sign the transaction"
const chainId = await web3.eth.getChainId(); // will be 2828 on l16

const message = web3.utils.soliditySha3(chainId, keyManagerAddress, nonce, {
  t: 'bytes',
  v: abiPayload,
});

const signatureObject = controllerAccount.sign(message);
const signature = signatureObject.signature;
```

Now the `signature`, `abiPayload`, `nonce` and `keyManagerAddress` can be sent to a third party to execute the transaction using `executeRelayCall`.

## Execute via `executeRelayCall`

:::info
This example shows how a third party can execute a transaction on behalf of another user.
:::

> To execute a signed transaction ABI payload requires the **KeyManager contract address**, the **transaction abi payload**, **signed transaction payload** and **nonce** of the controller key which signed the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To execute a signed transaction ABI payload requires the **KeyManager contract address**, the **transaction ABI payload**, **signed transaction payload**, and **nonce** of the controller key which signed the transaction.
```

:::note

> To get the KeyManager address from the UniversalProfile address call the `owner` function on the Universal Profile contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the KeyManager address from the UniversalProfile address, call the `owner` function on the Universal Profile contract.
```
